Real Time Messaging Server Using Duplex Web Services
In this paper of real time messaging server is
proposed to support two-way client-server
interactions. Here, the role of service broker
between the clients and the server is played by the
duplex web services. Depending on the client
profile, web service registry and run time service
status, web service is dynamically selected. The Real
Time Messaging Framework will dynamically
configure into a Client Proxy to maintain
communication, which can be real time text, audio
or video. Because of the duplex web services,
overhead will be reduced at the server side by using
push back services at the same time. This service is
the part of two way interaction of the web service
that passes the message to the other client in the
network. In the whole process, emphasis will be on
increasing the data transfer speed and efficiency.
Thus, use of a web service in a chat server will
make it work better and faster in distributed
environment.