Coping with somatic illnesses in online support groups: Do the feared
disadvantages actually occur?
People in stressful circumstances, such as serious health conditions,
often turn to support groups. With the increase in the availability
and popularity of the Internet, the possibility has arisen to join
support groups online. Various authors have raised potential disadvantages
of these groups, such as the lack of control of the quality of the
information that is exchanged and the concern that the exchange within
the group might include socially inappropriate remarks. In this study
we explored to what extent these potential disadvantages actually
occur. In addition, we explored who uses Dutch online support groups
and what is exchanged by the participants. By means of ''content
analysis'' we analyzed a random sample of 1500 messages from publicly
available online support groups for patients with breast cancer,
arthritis and fibromyalgia. It appeared that the online support groups
under study were mainly used by female patients. A major part of
the postings contained ''off topic'' remarks. Popular health related
topics were ''restrictions in daily life'' and ''regular medication''.
Only in a minor proportion of the postings, potential disadvantages
were present. Therefore this study suggests that online support groups
are a viable option for support.